So we need to interact with this personal information page.
So I need to select a gender and we have two options.
Mr. or Mrs..
We need to enter first name and last name and an email address.
I'm not going to create an account as these are optional fields and the only other mandatory element
is to take this.
I agree to the terms and conditions before selecting the continue button.
So if I go back to the clips and look at my page objects, we can see that we have all the form pers
info.
And this page object contains those locators that we need in order to interact with that page.
So in my test class, I'm going to create a new object of all the form pass info.
So I'm going to write order form plus info and I'm going to call it P info equals new order form pers
info and I'm going to pass the driver object.
And once I import this.
Those errors will then go away.
And then guns use an object p info and I'm going to click a right to dot and then right gets and you'll
see all the methods that I have available.
So I'm going to select the Ms. the gender, so I'm going to use the get gender.
Mr..
The method and I would need to click it.
I'm again going to use a p info object and again get and I need to provide a value to the first name.
So I'm going to use the get first name field method.
And as I need to send a value to the textbox, I'm going to use the same keys and I'm going to simply
send the name John.
I'm going to use an object again that this time for the last name field.
Again, I need to send keys to send the value.
And I'm going to give a name of Smith.
So that should select the gender.
Enter first name.
Last name.
So I need to enter an email address and then select.
I agree to the terms conditions.
So using that same object and use gets.
And I have a method of get email filled.
And I'm going to say in case.
And I'm just going to use a email address of John Smith at test dot com.
If a user object one more time.
I need to find a method.
That will select or relocate the get terms and conditions, which is this method here.
And I simply need to click it.
So that should enter all the mandatory information.
And so the only other thing I'd need to do is select the Continue button.
So again, I'm going to use that object one more time.
And I'm looking for a method to select that button.
And I have a method here called Get Continue Button, which I simply need to click.
So I am going to just add another thread.
Don't sleep.
So what I've decided is once I finish writing this test completely, I'll remove all these for dot sleeps
is only for demonstration purposes so you can see what the test is doing.
So I am going to save it at this point and I am going to try run in the order complete test again to
see how far we get.
So you can see that the test functioned as we expected.
And what we actually did was get as far as entering all this information.
So let me just quickly replicate this.
And as the terms and conditions are already selected, I can simply press continue.
It would then take us to the addresses page.
So on this page we need to enter the mandatory information.
But notice that the first name and last name has already been entered.
Because this has been brought across from the impersonal information page.
So all we need to do here is enter the mandatory fields, which is the address the city, the state,
which is a dropdown menu, the zip or postal code, the country which again is a dropdown menu value
as there's only one value and it's predefined.
We don't really need to select this.
And the user's address for invoice too is already checked.
So all we need to do once we've entered the postal code is Click Continue Button.
So I'm going to go back to Eclipse.
And if I look at my page object classes, you'll see that I have a order form, delivery page object.
And if I openness.
Enclosed is upper class.
You'll see that these are all the elements I need to interact with that delivery page.
So in my test I am going to create a new object based on the order form delivery page.
I'm going to order form delivery.
And I'm going to call it the.
Delivery equals new order form delivery.
And I'm going to pass the driver object.
And if I hover over and import this, those errors wouldn't go away.
So on that page because these are predefined.
The next one I need to interact with is this address filled?
So I am going to use an object.
Thoughts get.
And if I look through these methods, you'll see that the one I need is get a address filled.
So I'm going to select that and I need to send the value and I'm going to send a value of 1 to 3 Main
Street.
The next element I need to interact with is the city.
So I am going to use that same object.
And they'll get.
And if I look to see if there is a city method which there is get city method and I'm going to use the
same keys method to send a value of Houston.
The next element is the state.
So remember, the state is a dropdown menu, so we need to use the select class.
So I'm going to call it select state.
Eco's new select.
And inside these brackets, I need to provide a locator, so I'm going to pass the order delivery object.
Don't get.
And if I look down, you'll see that I've got an option or method called get state dropdown menu.
So once I've written that, I can then use the state object and I can select by visible text.
And I am going to be sending a value.
Of Texas.
So.
So I'm going to be selecting a value of Texas.
So that should then select Texas from the state dropdown menu.
So the next element is the zip postal code.
So I am going to use the order delivery object again.
So get in.
If I scroll down you'll see that I've got a method called get post code filled.
And again, I need to send keys.
And I am going to send a zip code of.
77021.
So once I've entered that.
The country is already pre-defined, as there's only one option on this web page.
So I don't need to interact with it.
So the only other element that I need to select here is the continue button.
So if I use order delivery again don't get you'll see that I have a method forget continue button.
And I would need to click this.
So again I am going to add afraid that sleep to slow it down a little just to see if the.
Test works as we expect it to.
I'm just going to reduce these.
Fred got sleep so it runs a little bit quicker.
So if I save this class and try running it, let's see if it works.
So you can see that the test functioned as expected.
Once we entered this information.
So if I just fill in some information here.
So we are then presented with the shipping method page.
So here we have one option, which is to select my caviar, which is already selected.
We also have an option to add a comment about the order.
So all I'm going to do on this page is select this textbox and add a comment and then click Continue,
which should then take us to the payment web page.
So if I go back to my test and if I look on my left hand side.
Let's see what page objects we can use here.
So we have a page object called order form ship in method.
And this is the page object that relates to this ship in method page.
So I have a delivery message textbox, which will get the textbox to add a comment and another element
to continue to select the continue button.
So in my mind test I am going to use or create an object based on the order, form and method class.
So I'm going through order form ship in method and call it ship method equals new.
If I just copy paste this and pass the driver object.
And then simply need to import this.
And the error goes away.
So the first thing I'm going to do now is use that ship method, object, don't get and I'm going to
use the get delivery message text box method and I'm going to send keys.
And the comment I'm going to leave is if I am not in.
Please leave my delivery on my porch.
I'm then going to use that ship method object again, but this time I'm going to use the get continue
button method.
And I would need to click it.
So I'm not going to demonstrate the test at this point.
So I'm going to continue to the payment and then that will be the test complete.
So I am going to simply copy that message.
On the web page like so if I click continue.
We are then presented with the payment page.
So we have two options here.
Pay by cheque or pay by bank wire.
And we also have an element to agree to the terms of service.
And once we've made those selections, we can then select the order we have an obligation to pay.
So if I go back to my test and we look at our page objects, we can see that we have all the form payments.
And if I open it.
These are the elements that relate to that Web page.
So on my main test, I'm going to create a new object using order form.
Payments.
And I'm going to call it order pay equals new.
Just copy this over here, and I'm going to pass the driver.
I'll need to import that.
And I will go.
And now for user order.
Pay object.
Go get your see I've got an option of using either the get paid by check radio button or get paid by
a radio button.
So I'm going to select the check radio button and I would need to click it.
And then guns use that object again.
But this time I'm going to get the get terms condition checkbox.
And I am also going to click that to.
So that will select this and then it will select this.
And by doing so, this order we have an obligation to pay button will be selectable.
So I need to now select this button.
So again, I'm going to use order pay.
Thoughts get.
And you can see that I have got get for the button which the method and all I need to do is click it.
So that is our test complete.
And once they select this button.
You should see that will see a message saying your order is confirmed.
So I am going to add a few more Fred slips just so that we can see what is happening.
So if I save this test now.
And run it.
We should see a full end to end test.
And you can see the our test functioned as we expected.
And the test has passed as listed here.
So congratulations.
You've just created a full entrance test using the page object model.
Similar to how a user would interact with the website in order to make a purchase.
So we have used the page object model and the page object classes are what store the elements for each
page as well as methods to access those locators.
So this means if those web pages were ever to change, say, a web developer made a change to the actual
page itself, then all we'd need to do is update the page object classes for our test to inherit those
changes.
So this is a big achievement and well done for following along.
In the next lecture we will construct a number test which will be much shorter, but I'll show you how
we can delete an item from the cards as well as to check the total amount is the amount we expect in
use in an assertion.
Thank you for watching.